---
layout: post
title:  "Issue #24"
date:   2021-12-03   12:00:00 -0500
author: Jakub Kuderski, Alexey Bader, Lei Zhang
draft:  true
---

Welcome to LLVM GPU News, a bi-weekly newsletter on all the GPU things under the LLVM umbrella.
This issue covers the period from November 12 to December 2 2021.

We welcome your feedback and suggestions. Let us know if we missed anything interesting, or want us to bring attention to your (sub)project, revisions under review, or proposals. Please see the bottom of the page for details on how to submit suggestions and contribute.


## Industry News and Conferences
*  I


##  LLVM and Clang

### Discussions

*  J

### Commits

*  T


## MLIR

### Discussions

*  D

### Commits

*  SPIR-V dialect definitions were refreshed to catch up with the latest spec. [D113667](https://reviews.llvm.org/D113667)
*  `scf.while` to SPIR-V conversion is now supported. [D113007](https://reviews.llvm.org/D113007)
*  Math ops to SPIR-V conversion now can generate OpenCL extended instructions. [D113780](https://reviews.llvm.org/D113780)
*  `spv.AtomicFAddEXTOp` is defined and capability bugs for atomics were fixed. [D113764](https://reviews.llvm.org/D113764), [D114551](https://reviews.llvm.org/D114551)


## OpenMP (Target Offloading)

### Discussions

*  D

### Commits

*  C

## External Compilers

### LLPC

*  M

### oneAPI DPC++

#### CUDA/HIP support

*  Enabled `cuda-gpu-arch`, `cuda-path`, `nocudalib`, and `fno-sycl-libspirv` options in MSVC compatible driver (`clang-cl`).
*  Improved diagnostics for using unsupported work-group size with HIP backend.
*  Added half precision floating point data type support for `nextafter` function.
*  Added atomics with scopes and memory orders to CUDA backend. Patch adding NVPTX intrinsics required for this implementation is uploaded for review. [D112718](https://reviews.llvm.org/D112718)
*  Added HIP backed implementation for 40+ math functions.

#### SYCL 2020 support

*  Improved diagnostics for using non-forward declarable kernel name types and unsupported data types in device code (added `is_device_copyable` type trait check for SYCL buffers).
*  Added user-defined and pointer types support to `group_broadcast` operation.
*  Made `sycl::marray` implementation trivially copyable.
*  Added info::device::built_in_kernel_ids information query support.

#### Non-standard extensions

*  [ESIMD] Added support for align flags to `simd::copy_from`/`to` operations.
*  Added ESIMD-specific IR verification pass.
*  Added specification for `discard_events` queue property.

#### Misc

*  Fixed a number of memory leaks in the DPC++ runtime library.
*  Added stripped PDB files for the DPC++ runtime library and plugins when building with MSVC.
*  Reduced compiler memory consumption during link step.
